RAJA PANDI G R  
DATA ENGINEER  
+91 99420 90134  
rajapandi2108@gmail.com  
PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY  
 
Results -oriented Data Engineer with 2.1 1 years of experience having a strong background Data Engineering 
tools in Python, SQL, Scala, and Hadoop ecosystem technologies. Skilled in data storage and processing 
using Azure, Apache Spark, Hive, and PySpark. Demonstrated success in managing and analy sing large 
datasets, optimizing ETL processes, and delivering valuable insights to drive business decision -making. 
Proactive collaborator with excellent problem -solving abilities, seeking an opportunity to leverage skills 
and contribute to a reputed organi zation's data  driven success.  
 
SKILLS & ABILITIES  
 
• Big Data:  Hadoop, Apache Spark, Hive, Apache Sqoop  
• Database : MySQL, PostgreSQL . Azure SQL DB  
• Language:  Python, SQL, PySpark  
• Cloud : Snowflake,  Azure Cloud, Azure Data Factory, ADLS Gen 2, AWS S3, AWS Athena, AWS 
Glue, AWS Lambda, Databricks , Synapse Analytics  
• Operating System:  Windows, Linux  
• Other Tools:  MS Office, IDE Eclipse, GitHub, Cloudera CDH, MS SQL Server, PyCharm  
EXPERIENCE  
 
 
Oct 2023 – till date, Optisol Business Solutions, Madurai  
Role – Data Engineer  
Dec 2021 – Oct 2023, Wipro Limited, Chennai  
Role – Senior Analyst  
June 2021 – Dec 2021, Wipro Limited, Chennai  
Role – Intern  
EDUCATION  
 
Thiagarajar  College of Engineering , Madurai  
• B.E(Computer Science and Engineering)  
• 2018 – 2021  
• CGPA – 7.71 
 
Tamil Nadu Polytechnic College, Madurai  
• Diploma(Computer Engineering)  
• 2015 – 2018  
• Percentage – 95.75  
 
PROJECTS  
 
PROJECT NAME: AYM Commerce Data Migration (E-Commerce)  
TECHNOLOGIES USED: PostgreSQL, Azure Cloud, Azure Data Factory, Confluence  
Environment: A zure Cloud  
Roles and Responsibilities:  
• Currently engaged in a data migration endeavor, transitioning data from a Version 1 application to 
a Version 2 application.  
• Established a pipeline that effectively migrates data from AWS Postgres to Azure Postgres and am 
presently focused on mapping columns in each table. Additionally, Developed a Python script to 
validate the entirety of the data migration process, ensuring it s success.  
• Documenting the data requirements from the perspective of front -end developers, detailing how 
data should be stored in the backend system.  
 
PROJECT NAME: VERSAND DATA  
TECHNOLOGIES USED: AWS Glue, Lambda, S3, Snowflake  
Environment: AWS Cloud  
Roles and Responsibilities:  
• Proficient in seamlessly ingesting records via SFTP into S3, with automatic Lambda triggering 
upon file arrival.  
• Skilled in orchestrating comprehensive data transformations within Glue, converting unstructured 
data to structured formats before storing the processed files back in designated S3 folders.  
• Experienced in utilizing SQS for efficient data transfer from S3 to Snowflake, managing staging 
and actual table loading through Snowpipe integration.  
 
PROJECT NAME: CINTAS HEALTH CARE (HealthCare)  
TECHNOLOGIES USED: Azure Data Factory, PySpark, ADLS, SQLDB  
Environment: Azure Cloud  
Roles and Responsibilities:  
• Proficient in extracting data from diverse file formats from a shared location and ingesting it into 
the Blob Storage. Utilized Azure Data Factory to build a successful pipeline to process the data.  
• Designed and implemented 3 -tier SQL DB table tables for efficient querying and processing of data 
residing in Blob Storage.  
• Leveraged PySpark code and data flow to update and transform the data, eliminating erroneous 
records and removing unwanted columns, ensuring high -quality data for storage in the final SQL 
DB table.  
 
 
 
 
CERTIFICATIONS  
 
 
 
• Databricks Lakehouse Fundamentals Certification(Completion Date – 8-Apr-2024)  
• TrendyTech Big Data Master’s Program(Completion Date – 17-Aug-2023)  
• IBM Data Engineering Professional Certificate provided by IBM from Coursera.  
• (Completion Date –21-Jan-2023)  
• Google Data Analytics Professional Certificate provided by Google from Coursera.  
(Completion Date –17-Aug-2022 ) 
 

Jeevankumar O MH+91- 9842924330
Bjeevanom306@gmail.com
Experienced professional with over 2.11years of expertise in Data Engineering and Software Engineer. Proficient
in constructing intricate data pipelines and executing business requirements utilizing cutting-edge data tools.
Education
2016–2019 Madurai kamarajar university, Madurai ,BSC(CS) .
Technical Skills
Python,Pyspark,Databricks,Mysql,Django,Flask,FastAPI,Playwright,Github, Kafka,AWS,LLM,
OpenAI
Work Experience
Aug 2022 –
OngoingData Engineer ,Optisol business solutions , Madurai.
{Built complex data pipelines and implemented business need using the latest data tools such as AWS
Glue, S3, Event bridge, Lambda, SNS
{Proficient in writing codes in SQL and Pyspark
{Experience in performing change data capture without the use of any third-party tools
{Expertise in performing data migration with ease irrespective of their size.
{Developed large dataset transformation using AWS databricks
Jan 2021 –
Aug 2022Software Engineer ,Profizio IT solutions , Madurai.
{Independently managed a web application aligned with business requirements.
{Client interaction and gather requirements and present ideas
{Enabled seamless workflow automation by setting up a robust CI/CD pipeline using GitHub Actions and
Docker.
{Utilized the Django web framework to craft several REST APIs.
{Deployed the software application into AWS EC2 instance.
{Developed comprehensive unit test cases using the pytest module.
Projects
Feb 2023–
OngoingCogoInsurance .
Cogo Insurance is a Usage Based Insurance provider in the USA predominantly catering to trucks and
heavy vehicles. Our objective is to identify driver’s behavior based on telematics data and assign insurance
premium based on that driver’s behavior.
{Derived features such as hard acceleration, hard braking and hard cornerings to identify driving behavior.
{Used 3rd party API’s such as WeatherAPI to determine if a driver is driving in harsh weather conditions
{Built a driver score calculation formula based on weighted average method using the derived features.
{Setup a pipeline using AWS Glue to process the daily telematics data for around 20000 drivers and
automatically calculate the driver score for those drivers and these driver score would be stored in AWS
RDS MySQL database.
{Built a FastAPI to fetch the driver scores based on driver ids from the AWS RDS database.
1/2
Sep 2022–
Jan 2023Neutrian .
The data lake is designed to store landed core data from the source system and the environment for data
aggregation and correlation. The solution’s main goal is to improve performance and efficiency of change
data capture implementation
{Involved with the data Extraction, aggregations, and consolidation of sales data within databricks using
PySpark.
{Designed and developed ETL Processes in Pyspark to migrate Campaign data from external sources
like PostgreSQL into databricks Delta table.
{Designed and implemented a real-time data pipeline to process semi-structured data by integrating 150
million raw records from various data sources using Spark.
Jan 2022– Jul
2022H-BOT.
H-Bot version-1 collects, segregates, validates, and highlights the output in PDF without human
intervention. This is the art of technology-driven services. It facilitates employers to engage their
manpower’s precious person-hours in productive/optimum utilization.
{Multiple PDF files will be integrated into the MySQL server and subsequently stored in an S3 bucket.
{Extracted and integrated multiple EPF and ESI PDF files from the S3 cloud storage.
{Employed the PYMUPDF library for efficient processing of PDF files, leveraging its impressive perfor-
mance and superior rendering quality.
{Utilized Django’s API to facilitate interaction with this model through a RESTful API, while Angular
was employed to develop the chat window.
Jan 2021–
Jun 2022C-QUBE .
C-QUBE compliance check-version 1–cloud-based application is in line with the statutory applicability
track, collects documents, validates, highlights, rectifies, and finally certifies the contractor’s compliance
month on month with less human effort. This is the edge of the technology- driven solution.
{Constructed PDF and Excel files for each uploaded contractor.
{Integrated Excel and PDF data, utilizing a Django REST API to validate against specific conditions
and stored in Mysql
{Implemented a middleware using JWT tokens to enhance user login authentication.
{Created an administrative panel and dashboard using Django and Django Rest Framework.
{Successfully deployed the web application on an AWS EC2 instance and established a CI/CD pipeline.
Achievements
Oct 2023 AWS Solution Architect - Associate .
Jan 2023 Dataricks Lakehouse Fundamental Certified .
Jul-2022 Hacker Rank Certified Python basics ,Attained a 96 percentage proficiency in problem-solving
using Python on the HackerRank platform. .
2/2

